			This is the README file for 


                      BBBB   U   U  GGGGG  SSSSS  X   X 
                      B   B  U   U  G      S       X X  
                      BBBB   U   U  G GGG  SSSSS    X  
                      B   B  U   U  G   G      S   X X  
                      BBBB    UUU   GGGGG  SSSSS  X   X 



1) Author & Copyright

	bugsx was written by 

		(C) Copyright 1995-1997 Robert Gasch (Robert_Gasch@peoplesoft.com)
		http://www.peoplesoft.com/peoplepages/g/robert_gasch/index.htm

		(C) Copyright 1990-1997 Joshua R. Smith (jrs@media.mit.edu) 
		http://physics.www.media.mit.edu/~jrs

	is copyright by the author(s). I (Robert_Gasch@peoplesoft.com) maintain 
	the X11 port and Joshua maintains any other ports. See section 4 
	and 17 for more info.

2) Distribution Policy

 	Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software for
	any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that this
	copyright notice appear in all copies as well as supporting 
	documentation. All work developed as a consequence of the use of 
	this program should duly acknowledge such use.

	See the GNU General Public Licence for more information.

	What does this mean?
	This means that you can pretty much do with it what you want as 
	long as you don't charge substantially more than the distribution 
	costs for it (of course you have to make the source available). 

	This makes software distributions like Walnut Creek or Infomagic 
	perfectly acceptable. 

	It does NOT matter wether you use it at home or in a comercial 
	environment. 

	If you want to include it in a major commercial distribution you 
	need my permission to do so.

3) Guarantees

	bugsx should work all right *but*

	No representations are made about the suitability of this software 
	for any purpose. This software is provided "as is" without express 
	or implied warranty.

4) What is bugsx?

	bugsx runs under MIT's X11 window system. It was written under 
	UNIX but should be easily portable.  It is a program which draws 
	the biomorphs based on parametric plots of Fourier sine and cosine
        series and let's you play with them using the genetic algorithm.

	The original version which ran under Suntools and XViews was 
	written by Joshua R. Smith sometime 1990. See the 'credits' 
	section for more details. 

	For more information about the theoretic backgrounds of 
	bugsx consult Joshua R. Smith's paper distributed with this 
	program in gzip'ed postscript format as bugs.ps.gz. You have 
	to uncompress this file with 'gunzip' before you can print it. 
	Gunzip should be available at an archive near you.

	The paper can also be gotten from:
	http://physics.www.media.mit.edu/~jrs/biomorphs.ps

	I (Robert_Gasch@peoplesoft.com) maintain the X11 port and 
	Joshua (jrs@media.mit.edu) maintains any other ports. 
	See section 4, and 17 for more info. 

5) Version Number

	The current version number is 1.08

6) Where can I get Bugsx from?

	Bugsx can be gotten from the following FTP sites:
	media.mit.edu 	(/physics/dist/bugs)
	ftp.x.org	(/contrib/applications)

7) What if you change the program?

	please mail me (Robert_Gasch@peoplesoft.com) the changes(!) as I'd like to 
	act as the central source for bugsx. This will also enable me to 
	include your changes in a future release. If your changes are 
	generic, I'll pass the changes on so that other versions of BUGS 
	can also benefit from your input.

8) Systems currently supported

	Any resonable UNIX-type system running X11 should be able to 
	compile and run bugsx. I've tested it on the following 
	systems:

	Linux
	AIX 

9) How do I get started?

	This section assumes that you have all the necessary files. (The 
	file "Manifest" contains a list of distributed files.)

	a) Customize the Imakefile to suit your system setup. On most systems 
	this should work OK as it is.

	b) Make the Makefile by typing 
		xmkmf
	If your system does not support generating makefiles from 
	Imakefiles use "Makefile.std" as a template to build your
	own. 

	c) If your X headers do not define APP_DEFAULTS_DIR and your default 
	X Resource file is not 
		/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/app-defaults/
	edit bugsx.h and modify the definition for APP_DEFAULTS_DIR. On 
	most systems things should be OK the way they are, but this gives 
	you the possibility to customize this.

	d) Once you have a valid Makefile (see step a&b) build bugsx by typing
		make

	Once you have created the executable, you're ready to go. The
	executable will be created in the directory in which the source
	for bugsx resides. 

10) Brief users guide

	You can get a list of supported options by typing one of the
	following:
		bugsx -?
		bugsx -help
		bugsx help

	Once you start bugsx, you get the main window containing 
	the menu options at the top and the evenly distributed drawing 
	windows below the menus. 

	The Menus are:

		Initialize - Initializes the gene pool 
		Breed 	   - Breed the selected organisms.  
		Quit       - exits bugsx

	Once you have chosen "Initialize" and the first set of drawings 
	is shown, you can select the ones you wish to be included in 
	the cross-breeding by clicking (with the left button) on a 
	drawing window. The selected organisms will be drawn inverse. 

	Clicking on Breed will cross breed the selected organisms using 
	the genetic algorithm. If you have not selected at least two 
	organisms, a set of at least two will be randomly chosen and 
	used for the breeding. 

	The following keys can be used to control bugsx:
		q - quit bugsx 
		i - initialize population
		b - breed

	Interesting/useful sample settings:
		bugsx -interval 3 -number 4 -batch -nobreed -segments 500
		bugsx -interval 3 -batch -showbreed 
		bugsx -seed 10 


10) Command line parameters

	bugsx accepts the following parameters as command line options:

	+rv 			reverse video (use to override xrdb entry)
	+synchronous		syncronous mode (use to override xrdb entry)
	-? 			help
	-background <arg>	backgound color
	-batch 			run program in batch mode
	-bg <arg> 		same as -background
	-bordercolor <arg>	border color
	-borderwidth <arg> 	border width
	-cycle <arg>		re-initialize population after n batch turns
	-display 		display
	-extend_print		show extended reproduction info while running
	-fg <arg>		same as -forground
	-font <arg>		font
	-foreground <arg>	forground color (also file system bar color)
	-geometry <arg>		geometry 
	-help 			help
	-iconic			iconic
	-interval <arg>		interval used per turn
	-mb			show menu border
	-name <arg>		run bugsx under this name
	-nobreed 		do not breed when running in batch mode
	-number <arg>		number of biomorphs to draw (must be a square #)
	-printpop		print the population when breeding
	-rv 			reverse video
	-seed <arg>		use this seed for random number generator
	-segments <arg>		use this many segments to draw an organism
	-showbreed		show breeding subpopulation when in batch mode
	-showgenes		show a graphic representation of the genes
	-synchronous		synchronous mode
	-v 			verbose
	-xrm			make no entry in resrouce database
	help 			help


11) XResources 

        bugsx recognizes the following XResources. Usually bugsx will search 
	for resources under the program name but you can override this with 
	the -name flag. If you do not wish to use a specific application 
	defaults file, you can execute xrdb -merge to merge your resource 
	specifications into the XResource database. 

	bugsx first checks in the directory pointed at by the environment 
	variable XAPPLRESDIR. If this doesn't yield any resource definitions 
	it checks the APP_DEFAULTS_DIR. This is defined in your headers or 
	in bugsx.h. If you want to change this you'll have to recompile bugsx.

	background		universal backgound color
	batch			run program in batch mode
	batchbreed		do not breed when running in bactch mode
	borderColor		border color
	borderWidth		border width
	cycle			re-initialize population after n batch turns
	display			display
	extend_print		show extended reproduction info while running
	font			font
	foreground		universal foreground color 
	help			show help
	mainWin.geometry	main window geometry
	iconic			start program in iconic mode 
	interval		interval used per turn
	minimize		minimize window size 
	menuborder		draw menu borders
	name			run bugsxunder this name
	number			number of biomorphs to draw (must be a square #)
	printpop		print the population when breeding
	reverseVideo		reverse video
	seed			use this seed for random number generator
	segments		use this many segments to draw an organism
	showbreed		show breeding subpopulation when in batch mode
	showgenes		show a graphic representation of the genes
	synchronous		syncronous mode
	verbose			verbose mode 
	
12) Troubleshooting

	Problem: Compile failes with a problem with the catlist() function
		definition.
	Solution: In terms of portability this is the most fragile part 
		of bugsx. I've done my best to make this portable, but 
		there may be systems whose compiler simply throws up once 
		he sees catlist. If you do have problems with catlist(), 
		there are a number of things you can try:
		1) Try using another compiler (gcc generally accepts the 
		catlist() function as-is). 
		2) Undef/Define  __STDC__ in your compiler directives. Most 
		compilers do this via the -U flag. 
		If these fail, you'll have to adapt catlist() for your 
		machine. In that case, accept my apologies for the problems
		and please send me a mail telling me what you did so that I 
		can integrate your fix into the sources, sparing others of 
		this misery.

	Problem: Bugsx won't find my resource definitions.
	Solution: Bugsx handles resources as follows:
		a) bugsx checks in the directory pointed at by the environment 
		   variable XAPPLRESDIR. If this doesn't yield any resource 
		   definitions we go to step b. If bugsx ignores your personal 
		   resrource definitions, make sure you have XAPPLRESDIR 
		   set to the proper value and exorted. 
	        b) bugsx checks the APP_DEFAULTS_DIR. This is defined in your 
		   headers or in bugsx.h. If you want to change this you'll 
		   have to recompile bugsx.
		The reasoning behind this approach is to allow user preferences 
		to take preference over the system preferences. 

	Problem: Bugsx seems to start OK but I don't get the window.
	Solution: Check if your DISPLAY variable is set correctly (you
		can always use the -v falg to see if it does start up 
		correctly).

13) I've found a bug. What now?

	Read section 11 (Troubeshooting) to see if it falls under one of
	the problems listed there. If not either fix it yourself or mail
	me. If my time allows it, I'll try to fix things.  

14) I've come up with a feature which I think would be useful.

	Here again you can do 2 things:
		1) Implement it yourself. If you do this then
		reread section 5 (What if you change the program?)
		to get an idea what I would like you to do with the
		result.
		2) Mail me. I'll consider it and if I agree with you
		will implement it whenever I find time.

15) I would like to receive future releases of bugsx.

	Send me mail telling me that. Somewhere in the mail *list* 
	the email address you want to receive future releases at. 

16) I'm extatic about this wonderful program. How can I make the author happy?

	If you really feel this way, how about a short mail message
	telling me that you are happy about using bugsx. If you're 
	really, really extatic, send me a postcard to this address:

	Steneveld 26
	6715 HB Ede
	Holland

17) I hate this worthless program. It ruins my day.

	Don't use it. Don't mail me!

18) Credits

	Much (maybe even most) of this program is based on the program 
	BUGS, written by Joshua R. Smith sometime 1990. I've rewritten 
	the code to run under XWindows, fixed some minor things and 
	added some options (both user interface wise as well as in the 
	breeding/mutation possiblities) here and there to make it more 
	fun to play with bugsx, but the basic engine is adapted from 
	the original BUGS version. If you are interested in other 
	BUGS ports, mail Joshua (jrs@media.mit.edu) about this or visit
	his web page at:
		http://physics.www.media.mit.edu/~jrs/biomorphs.ps
